Now with VSCode open on the top,
from the file menu go to open, and
somewhere on your desk, create a new folder. Let's call this
folder HelloWorld. And then
open it, beautiful, now click this icon on the top,
this opens up the explorer panel. In this panel,
you can see all the files and folders in your project. So let's
add a new file, and call that app.
py. So all our python files should have the py
extension. Press enter. Now let's close
this. And type a bit of python code. In this lecture,
we're going to use one of the built in functions in Python called
print. So in Python, we have a lot of built in functions for
performing various kinds of tasks. For example, as a midd of forth, think of the
remote control of your tv. on this remote control you have a bunch of
functions like turn on, turn off, change the chanel, change the volume
and so on. These are the built in functions in your TV.
We have the same concept in python and many other programming languages.
So one of these built in functions that comes with python is print.
And we can use this to print something
on the screen. Now whenever you wanna use a function, you should open
and close parenthesis. In programming we say
recalling the print function. Calling a function means executing it.
Now let's display the hello world message
on the screen. Whenever you want to work with text, you should put your text
in between quotes. Either double quotes
or single quotes. Now I'm going to go with double quotes
and add Hello World and
then put a happy Persian cat here, beautiful, save the changes
with command and s on Mac, or control and
S on Windows. Now to execute this code, we need to go back to
command prompt on Windows or Terminal on Mac. But
the good news is that we don't have to switch programs, here in VSCode
we have an integrated terminal, so press control
and back tick, that is the key before number 1 on your
keyboard. It's just below the escape button.
So this is our integrated terminal, now if you're on Windows
type python, but if you're on Mac or Linux, type Python 3,
and next to that, add the name of our file, that is
app.py. And here's our Hello World message
in the terminal, beautiful. Now let's take this to the next level
and make it a little bit more interesting. Let's close this terminal Window
by pressing control and back tick and add a
second line of code, so one more time, print,
this time let's add quotes with a star in between them.
Now, let's see if you want to repeat this star ten times.
So here we can multiply this by 10, save,
the changes. Open up the terminal and run our program.
And you can see this star is repeated
ten times. So as you can see the instructions in our program
are executed from top to bottom in order. In the
next lecture, I'm going to show you how to convert this vs code to a powerful
ID for building python applications.